---
layout: default
title: kids
---

<h4>Am I supposed to have kids?</h4>

The first time I'd ever heard of a "geriatric pregnancy" was on an episode of <em>Catastrophe</em>. Sharon Horgan's character (also named Sharon) is informed that being in her 40s puts her and her unborn child at high risk for medical complications. Sharon's pap smear is abnormal; she has <a href="https:/webmd.com/cancer/cervical-cancer/cervical-dysplasia-symptoms-causes-treatments" target="_blank" alt="opens a new window to an article about cervical dysplasia">cervical dysplasia</a>. The doctor assures that there's not much to worry about. It's not cancer, just "sort of next door" to it. She just needs to come back more often for check-ups and ensure that her cervix remains cancer-free. The next day, Sharon is still fixated on what she sarcastically describes as a "gentle half-cancer," and links it to age. Distressed, she looks to her partner for confirmation. "It's because I'm old, isn't it?"

Until quite recently, I'd never really thought about having kids, or contemplated my fertility. I was excited for my friends when they had the first, their second kids. Happy to finally have recipients of cute clothes and picture books. As for me? As well as financial stability, I was holding out for emotional maturity. And, to be honest, a reliable partner. An image kept playing in my mind, of trying to get an unwieldy stroller on the bus. In this scenario, I still don't know how to drive, or I can't afford a car. The other parent may or may not be in the picture.

These things can be planned only to a certain extent. But as it turns out, <em>not</em> getting pregnant has been easy enough. While I was definitely interested in being a relationship, starting a family rarely crossed my mind. I was interested in establishing trust, and intimacy, and also very into getting it on. Parenting? Not so much. Instead of having kids, my early adulthood were spent having "relations" and other child-free adventures.

Now in my mid-30s, I find myself awake too early in the morning, strolling Instagram to watch babies walk for the first time. I chuckle when toddlers are talking, and coo when when animals---usually dogs---cozy up to them. When co-workers bring their younger kids to work, I can't take my eyes off of them. I forget where I am and make funny faces, funny sounds. Anything for the approval of those little humans.

On my fridge hangs the birth announcement of my college friend's second child. I haven't looked at it/her since putting it up but sometimes, out of the corner of my eye, I can make out a tiny little hat, half-closed eyelids, a fist not much larger than a grape. When my mind wanders, I try to imagine what my children would look like, what they would be like, what <em>I</em> would be like with them, for them. This alternate reality makes me sad. As though kids are something that "just" happen (and sometimes they do), I've convinced myself that it's not in the cards for me. There might still be time, a part of me says. The other part, overriding that notion, tells me it's too late.


