---
layout: post
title: Emotional Labor
---

<h4>Emotional Labor</h4>

(AKA Day 3 of NC with my mom.)

SO much has happened since I last wrote in here four years ago. That's how it always is, right? 

The last two years have been a whirlwind. I got a job that I'd been aiming for and because of it, moved from Washington, DC to the Pacific Northwest. I turned 40. 

Oh, and my stepdad took his own life exactly two days after that milestone birthday. I've been in therapy, of course.

After taking care of the necessary admin stuff--mainly because my mom wasn't in the state to handle any of it, <em>having found his body</em>--I dipped my toes into self-help literature pertaining to this particular kind of experience. I'm not sure I found it all that comforting; I just wanted to see how other people thought, what kind of supports were available to them, and what they sought out, if they did. I wanted to see how they remembered their loved ones, and how they thought about mortality, in general. Whether one month or a decade on, did they notice any changes in themselves, in their "life philosophy?"

I guess, thanks to therapy, I too availed myself of the variety of resources for "survivors of suicide loss." One organization connected me with a "peer counselor" who had a similar experience. B. was (is) around my age. He would call every now and again to check in on me. I looked forward to his calls, primarily because he had a nice voice, not because I actually need to offload. He had on multiple times stated that I "seemed" OK. So, after a few months, the calls tapered off and then ended, perhaps because I really never seemed particularly distraught or as distraught as he maybe thought I should've been.

I also attended an online group meeting for exactly one session. Most of the people were not BIPOC (at least the ones who were on camera), and none of the people who shared about their experience had lost a parent/parent figure. I didn't cry, and also remember feeling annoyed by people expressing how they felt alone and abandoned, which...I know. People will feel how they feel. I just didn't share the sentiment, and that's OK, too.

My friends stepped up when I asked. I wrote a long-ass email BCC'ing several people giving the gist of the situation, and how I was finding myself, and how they might help me. If I'm learning anything from this experience, is that I am indeed <em>not</em> alone, that I can ask for assistance and people will help <em>within their capacity</em>. E., one of my oldest friends, skipped the rest of a conference she was attending and flew out to see me fumble, witness me scream at my mom, ugly cry, go on a Zoom call with the funeral home, etc. Even my department manager sent a gift card to cover rides and meals. 

People care. This is the one thing that I wish my stepdad had internalized. But I also can't fault him for whatever battles he was fighting alone, or felt like he had to. I can't fault him for having lived in a society that still stigmatizes vulnerability, especially when expressed by men, and one that is adamant about what makes a "real" man. It's also a society that champions individualism and grit and productivity and busy-ness and so many things that are detrimental to health, as my stepdad's example (and too many others) has demonstrated.

And then there's my mom. As in life, I don't know what to write about her. If this were 10 or 20 years ago, I might have had something snippy to say, but now I'm just sad for her. There are things, I think, that she needed to examine long before my stepdad's death, and things that have nothing to do with him, but now none of it will be explored. She's in her 70s. Maybe, for her too, it's too late. 


